# Scrambler
Create words in a nonexistent language

The scrambler is a tool for creating a nonsense language. The primary use case is a Dungeons & Dragons campaign I am creating.
There is an ancient language I want my players to decipher bit by bit. I don't want to invent a language myself. Nor do I want to have to translate stuff. So, I am writing a tool for it.

This tool takes a sentence, scrambles each word to some nonsense that still looks like a word, and gives me the translation. The tool also remembers words it already scrambled so that each word only has a single scrambled counterpart.

Next to the actual use case, this tool is also my first journey into the Rust programming language.

## Usage

### Database
The scrambler looks for the `scrambler_data` folder in its working directory.
If it can't find that folder, it will create it.
In that folder, the following files are considered.
- `translated_words.json`: this file contains a sorted list of all words the scrambler has already translated.
- `alphabet.json`: this file contains a sorted list of all letters that the scrambler can use to generate new words.
- `blocked_words.json`: this file contains a sorted list of all words that were generated by the scrambler, but rejected by the user.
- `*_previous.json`: this is a backup file for `*.json`. If the scrambler writes to `*.json`, it will first rename the current file to `*_previous.json`. If the scrambler fails to read the proper `*_words.json`, it will give an error and use the backup.

It is not recommended to change any of these files while the scrambler is running. The scrambler might overwrite the changes you made to the file immediately.

Apart from the `_previous.json` mechanism, no backups or restores are provided by the scrambler itself. If you wish to maintain some kind of history, I suggest you check the `scrambler_data` folder into version control. All data files are plain text and version control friendly.

## Taken from my DM notes

### Drow word rules
- A word consists of letters taken from the [Phoenician](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paleo-Hebrew_alphabet), [Greek](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greek_alphabet), and [Elder Futhark(Runic)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elder_Futhark) alphabets.
- A word has similar length as its English translation. To be precise, the length of a word ranges from half the English length to double the English length. If rounding is needed, round towards the extremes: towards 0 for the lower bound (but clamp to 1, of course) and towards infinity for the upper bound.
- The same letter cannot appear more than two times consequently.

### Mapping tool
Create a tool that can do the following:
- Store the mapping between Drow and English for all known words.
- Look up the English translation for a Drow word and vice versa.
- Generate a new Drow word for an English word. It must first check if the word already exists. If it decides to generate a new word, it must follow the word rules above.
- Generate a new Drow sentence for an English sentence, using known words where applicable and generating new ones when needed.
- When a new word is generated, the user of the tool can choose to reject it. In this case, the tool generates a new word and puts the rejected word on a ban list. (The main reason for this are words that look silly.)
- Translate a Drow sentence back to English.
- UI interface for editing alphabet.
- UI interface for editing block list.

Because I am using ancient languages, the tool needs full unicode support. That's an interesting programming challenge!
